In this lecture we're going to go ahead and create some cross road graphics.
Now you probably already familiar with cross roads.
It's one of the top games in the App Store right now.
Now if you're not familiar with Crossroads that's OK.
All you need to understand about it is that it's a game that utilizes cubes the entire game is made
out of cubes and has very basic lighting.
The shadowing is very basic and the colors are completely solid.
So let's go ahead and jump right in and get started.
So the first thing you need to do is you need to download this background template that I have right
here.
This is an isometric grid that I created.
Now isometrics is just another type of perspective.
If you remember when we went over to point perspective to point perspective uses two points off in the
distance that your lines connect to.
So let me demonstrate what I'm talking about.
So when I have a new layer above my grid and using my brush to bring down a brush to the black.
Go ahead and draw on cube.
So you would have your center line right through the middle like so then these two lines right here
would connect off in the distance somewhere over here.
Right.
And that's how you would create the perspective for the cube.
This is a realistic perspective.
Now unlike one point to point perspective isometric perspective never occurs in real life.
It's more of a perspective in theory and so the way it works is rather than having your two lines connect
off at a distance point.
You make your line go straight across like so and the other line goes straight a clot crossed and parallel
to it.
So these lines are never going to connect.
This is what isometric perspective is.
So basically your cube would be right here the side would come over like so and you top would be right
there and that would be an asymmetric cube.
Now this is what we're going to be creating in this lecture is an isometric cube.
Once we create one cube we can use that cube over and over again to create any type of asset we want.
It's kind of like building with Legos but in Photoshop.
Really really cool.
And I think you'll like it.
So let's go ahead and get started.
I want to go ahead and delete the slayer then I'm going to add a new layer above this so I'm going to
zoom in there just so a little bit so I can see what's going on just a little bit better.
And what I want to do is you see my lasso tool and go ahead and click race here.
Now I'm also making sure I'm on my polygon a lasso tool.
So once you've clicked on a point you can come up four of these triangles or you can think of them as
diamonds.
I like to think of them as diamonds because they're the flat face of the top of my cube or the bottom
of my cube.
So I might come straight up holding down shift so I get a perfectly straight line maqam up one two three
four.
Next let's go ahead and come over for it this way diagonally.
So one two three.
We might have to go off the page a little bit for a click and making sure that I stay right on top of
that line that I'm going come straight down for.
So one two three four.
Well done shift to get a perfectly straight line and then I'm can connect it all the way back over here.
Perfect.
So now we have the first face of our cube.
Let's go ahead and fill that in.
So I'm going to select a light gray color somewhere in the middle between the white and the middle for
a summer about their minimum to fill that in.
Next we're going to go ahead and copy this later.
So hit Control J.
And then we're going to drag that layer over and using my transform to.
I'm going to go ahead and flip that horizontally.
And now this will play as the other face or cube or here you can use the air piece on a keyboard to
nudge it more into place.
So
next what we want to do is we want to add more of a shadow to the side.
So I'm going to bring up my hue and saturation by biting control you or command to you if you're on
a Mac.
And then we're going to darken that just a little bit to about.
There should be good.
OK.
Next we're going to make another copy of this layer.
So we're going to hit Control J.
And we can drag this new copy up here.
You can rotate it
it then we can get that into position.
Now it's been cut off right now.
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna drag that down because we don't want it to be cut off.
Until then I'm going to select all of my squares and I'm going to bring the size down
to about there so it will fit well and enter.
Now I can come back up here and drag the sky into place and I'll zoom in there and using my arrow keys
or nudge it into place that fits perfectly.
Perfect.
Now you'll notice here that we're getting this little weird corner.
So all I have to do is come back down to that layer.
And using my razor I'll just erase that away.
Now this may not be the perfect way to do it but the thing to remember when creating artwork is it's
not about the math.
It's about how it looks.
So as long as it looks good and nobody notices it it will be completely fine.
It's come down here and a race this little corner piece.
Great.
Next let's come back to that layer we just created and we're going to bring up its human saturation
and this time we want to lighten up.
So this is going to be the top of our cube.
We want it to be the lightest surface so I'm going to bring it up almost to the whites so just right
about there plus 85.
Ok cool.
So now we have our cube.
Let's go ahead and merge all these layers together and then I want to get this lined up with the correct
size of my grid.
So I'm going to bring this right down into this corner down here.
So once I get that into the corner what I can do is I can go ahead and use my transform to once again
I can shrink this down until I get it to line up with my grid.
Again
perfect.
So now you see it lines up down here in this corner.
It lines up in that corner.
That corner this corner in that corner.
That's what we want.
Let's go and enter the reason why we wanted to resize it to fit our grid again.
Is it just going to help us get things lined up when we're creating our assets.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to create a three dimensional isometric cube in Photoshop.
In the next lecture we're going to go ahead and build a tree asset from crossing roads.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.